I want to do was run around out there on that field chasing some yell leader and going and throwing him in the fish.
I want to cut out of there with that honey.
Could a freshman avoid being part of the group to throw the yell leaders in?
I suppose they could, but I never accomplished that task, you know.
I mean, Haskell, it was all male, all military.
There just weren't a lot of places and you're in uniform and your hair is cut.
There's just not a lot of places to hide as a freshman.
I mean, it was like being a prisoner.
Where would you and your date on a Saturday night, where would you go?
Well, the first place we'd head is out to Whiskey Bridge to get some refreshments.
Did you have to prove your age there?
No.
They weren't real sticklers on that.
And if it was, you'd just hang around the outside and an upperclassman would come through and, you know, you'd buy whatever you needed.
You know, generally somebody had a party going at one of the motels.
We'd go by there, dance a little bit, have a few drinks, and then we would head out and do what young people, you know, want to have some privacy.
The, at Whiskey Bridge, were the prices about reasonable?
Haskell, as far as I know, because I was not a, you know, uh,
Whiskey was something that, you know, you were expected to have a pint bottle to pour in a Coke so that, you know, you were like everybody else having a drink.
And I was not out there doing comparative shopping and had not bought enough to know one way or the other.
I'm sure they gouged Aggies just like everybody else did.
Now, what about Uncle Ed's?
Did you all go to Uncle Ed's ever?
You know, I went out there occasionally, but generally we, because we could walk,
You could walk to the East Gate, and in fact our senior year, two of us, we had been over there so much, the guy that had it, they had thrown him out, and whoever owned the building, I can't remember the guy's name, knew we were in there.
He said, boys, how would y'all like to own a beer joint?
He said, own a beer joint?
He said, well, actually you wouldn't own it.
The licenses are all in my name and everything, but we'll work on halves.
You know, you come in here and you operate this thing, and I'll split the profits with you.
So my senior year, in addition to carrying 21 hours to correspondence, of course, I was a joint proprietor of a beer joint over there by the bus station.
What was the name?
You know, whatever was on the door when we got it, and it was somebody's name, and I can't even remember that.
Don Lane, who's now dead, was the ringleader of that.
That wasn't Spurkey's, was it?
No, Sparky's has gone on to become a legend, but it's right in there where Sparky's is.
You know, those, I mean, that was the, who was the developer there in Bryan?
That was the first strip shopping center, I think, was over there at Eastgate, and it was in there near the bus station.
All right, so you get your first semester grades, and they're not good.
I'm on academic probation.
I'm on disciplinary probation.
I was already on disciplinary probation, and then I go on academic probation.
And that's what General Rudder, he said, you know, Mr. Raines, he said, you didn't make it a semester that you have, he said, you've been on probation.
Every semester, usually a freshman doesn't go on probation or a second semester, but you manage to get on your first semester, you're quite an unusual young man.
Alright, at the end of your freshman year, what'd you do that summer?
Went back and hung steel for Ellerbee.
I had a good job and I made $2.75 an hour and overtime was double time and every Saturday my job was to go out and service all the caterpillars, change oil filters, pump them full of diesel, all that.
He'd give me four hours for doing that, took me about an hour and a half to do it.
And I was bringing home more in paychecks from my father.
And did, in your family, was that all your money?
No, you had, I mean, you know.
Did you contribute something?
There were all sorts of things that I owed.
My dad sold my car after I got in trouble up there for about 10 cents on the dollar, which really made me angry.
He went down to see his good friend who took it off his hands.
In fact, he let me sell a car, you know.
It was a hot machine.
Reckon how much money you took with you as a sophomore?
That summer that I earned, I was netting over $500 a month, which was big money.
How much of that did you take to college to spend?
Well, I didn't take, you know, I mean, I went back to college.
I had to,
You know, mother and dad would, I had a checking account up there, and they'd put in like $20 a month, you know, in the checking account.
If I needed more, I had to call and justify it.
All right, now that sophomore year, you're in ARROTC.
Yep, and I'd qualified.
I'd taken all the physicals and
qualified for a Category 1 flight contract, which I was really excited about.
And you're still aiming on law school as your career goal?
Yeah, but I've been, my career counselor had told me, said, Raines, you can forget about law school.
He said, people who go to law school have good grades.
He said, you don't even have grades, much less good grades.
Who did you turn to for counseling then?
Well, by that time, you know, you're assigned to someone.
You went into, like, the College of Business.
You know, you declared a major up front.
And so it was whoever, you know, talked to you over the College of Business.
Make believe I had never seen academic registration at A&M.
Describe registration.
A Tasmanian cluster.
It was, you know, just the most disorganized jumble in the world.
It had been designed by somebody
who had a lot of military experience.
I mean, it just, if there was a way to get a lot of people standing in a lot of lines to get to some place, and it was a catch-22, oh, well, you've stood in this line, well, listen,
You can't get in this line until you go through the line so-and-so over there and get your ticket punch.
So then you had to go stand in that line to get there.
Now you've got your ticket punch.
You get back in this thing.
I want to take this course.
I'm sorry.
This section is full.
You might try standing in that line over there, which is such a fine, and you redo your schedule about 15 times.
I mean, it's just the worst thing in the world.
And there wasn't any shortcut, was there?
Wasn't any escape?
If there was, I never found it.
And how did you and your buddies find out about the easy courses and the hard courses?
Well, those were the things that you were preregistered for by,
Denton and Kutesh and all that.
For instance, you know, I told you about rocks for jocks.
There was Dr. Dan, the grade point man in sociology.
Did you ever take a course from him?
Of course.
Describe that.
Oh, well, in criminology, Kutesh taught that.
In fact, he wound up over at the prison system, I think, as a part of the keepers, not as an inmate.
But it was a wonderful course.
Fascinating.
And you made an A.
I mean, it was just, it was a given.
And I didn't cut that class.
I really enjoyed it.
The classes I cut, Haskell, if I'd ever had a prof like you, you know, when you were teaching up there, I sat in on your classes.
And my kids, you know, I pulled strings to get them into your classes.
At that time, your freshman year, you just had all these in these huge amphitheaters at one o'clock after everyone had a lot of starches.
And, you know, you couldn't hear because there's many people snoring.
You know, it's just I can't think of a worse academic setting.
So what I do is I wouldn't even buy the books.
You know, we got money for books.
I put that, you know, that was my walking around money.
I'd borrow one of my buddy's books and I'd take it and I'd read the book.
And I've always had the ability, you know, because mother started me reading when I was very young.
And I have the ability to read and absorb things and remember things.
So I'd read the book and the quiz would come up.
They'd say, we've covered these chapters.
And I'd borrow somebody's notes and I'd show up for the quiz.
And hell, I could make a C standing on my head and made a B a lot of the times.
And so I just didn't go to class.
I viewed it as a waste of my time.
You said money for books.
In fact, I showed up for a final one time, and the guy would, he thought I was taking the final for somebody else.
He said, you're not Jack Raines.
I said, yes, sir, I'm Jack Raines.
I said, here's my driver's license.
He said, I've taught this class, and you've never been in this class.
I said, yes, sir, I was here for three finals.
I mean, for three major quizzes.
Here for the final.
He said, I know who's my class.
I teach his class every day.
You're not my class.
We went around and around.
You mentioned having money for books.
Now, did you get any athletic funding?
Oh, I had a piece of a thing, and that was back.
See, they weren't so stuffy about alumni help.
You know, Charlie Myers mailed us a check.
You know, I'd get a deferred compensation out of Ellerbee Brothers.
You know, that, I mean,
Without that, I guess my family would have let me have more money than I had.
But, you know, at that time, I think you paid $125 a semester for room board tuition and you got your books.
It was a poor boy's school.
As far as you and your buddies were aware, were any of the athletes in the Bear Bryant days getting big money under the table?
Well, sure you knew that.
I mean, you knew, you know, John David Crowe had the definitive statement when they asked him his first year in the NFL, said, what's the difference between his college and pro ball?
He said, what do you get paid in the lighted room here?
And my other favorite John David story, and he and Carol, you know, I got to know them, and Carol was just a saint, and everybody loved her, and
Harrison, who was freshman quarterback, that Milstead started behind, I mean, was behind Harrison.
He and Joni were married.
We used to go over where all the married students were in Jackson.
You know, she'd cook chicken, fried steak for us.
We'd all chip in to buy groceries and that sort of thing and get a decent meal because you'd get so tired of eating out of those mess halls.
But you knew who had a better standard of living than others and it had a lot to do with who was starting and they just got more help.
HENDERSON HALL IS BUILT WHILE YOU'RE THERE?
YEAH.
WELL, I WAS NO LONGER EVEN A MARGINAL ATHLETE, BUT I WENT OVER THERE.
I HAD BUDDIES, YOU KNOW, LIVING OVER THERE.
AND THAT WAS JUST FOOTBALL?
THAT WAS STRICTLY FOOTBALL.
AND THEY MAY HAVE HAD, YOU KNOW, I THINK THE BASKETBALL COACH WAS LEFLER, AND HE RECREATED SOME HOT SHOT, AND BRIAN LET HIM PUT THE HOT SHOT IN.
YOU KNOW, I THINK HE MIGHT HAVE HAD ONE ROOM FOR TWO GUYS.
WHERE DID THEY EAT?
They had, in Sabisa, you had training tables over there.
In Duncan, you had training tables.
And training tables in two places.
And food was basically the same, you know, unless you had some guy on a special diet or something like that.
Coach would eat over there.
Some guy that was trying to get him to lose weight, he'd take the fat boys and they'd sit out here and they'd bring them a lot of vegetables and no gravy.
Did anybody ever try to play any jokes on Coach Bryant?
Not that I'm aware of.
You know.
I mean, Coach Bryant was not a man you trifled with.
And yet, I was the world's most marginal kid.
And I'll show you something upstairs.
I have two letters on the wall up there.
One's from Ronald Reagan on his last day in office.
And the other's from Coach Bryant right before he died.
And...
Who were the other, who were, other than John David and Charlie Milstead and people like that, who were the other celebrity students while you were at A&M?
Were there any?
Well, Kruger, of course, you know, and Charlie Kruger, and I know, you know, Rolf and all that bunch, and... Were there any important millionaire sons, politician sons?
Well, my freshman roommate when I was in the Corps was a guy named Yost.
And he was in all kinds of trouble.
And one night, boy, I heard everybody hitting the wall and all this stuff going on with us there in CQ, call the quarters we're studying.
And the door opens and filling up this doorways, a three-star general with fruit salad all over him.
And, you know, we're like that.
And Yost says, Dad, what are you doing here?
You know, I'm standing in a brace.
And he says, at ease, son.
He sits down.
He had flown into Bryan Air Force Base.
He was in charge of the Air Defense Command.
And we didn't know who in hell his son was.
But he had gotten pretty bad grades.
And so the old man flew down to see him.
He was like a celebrity.
I mean, in our world, he was a big celebrity.
And then there was one of the boys that was a Cleburne was there and nobody knew who the hell he was until one of the guys said he asked
one of the guys if he could uh use his car his parents were coming in he had to pick them up out the airport and you know we didn't have commercial service incident well how that happened the airport you know they had a plane and this is the king ranch family yeah and which i later found out but i didn't know who kleeberg was from adam's all thoughts were there any famous people that came to visit
Uh, performers, politicians.
Well, my senior year, uh, well, my freshman year, there was a guy from, uh, Port Arthur named Bubba Hurd, who was a Three Diamond man, and he was head of, uh, the Town Hall series.
And when we had run into, and before I went to A&M, we'd got out to California to work, and we went to a place called The Hungry Eye in San Francisco, and there was a group that performed out there.
There was a local California group that we really thought was good, and I gave their name and their agent who I met to Bubba Hurd.
So Bubba Hurd,
The next year, I'm coming up, I'm gonna be a freshman.
He had contacted this group and sent them $500 as an advance on a $1,000 contract for them to book and play on A&M campus.
Well that year they released their first album and I mean they had like two hits in the top ten off that album and
They came, and they honored their date, and they came in the Kingston Trio with the hottest thing going in this cow college.
You had them booked.
Where did they perform?
G. Raleigh?
G. Raleigh White.
That's where everybody did.
Edie Gourmet came down to perform, and...
She was so smitten with Bubba, Bubba later that night.
And he left with her, and they went to Dallas.
She had another date up there.
I thought he was going to run away from home with her.
And did, you know, you guys did some mischief sometimes at Guy and Hull.
Was there any mischief during a concert at G. Raleigh?
Well, they'd beat them to death, you know what I mean?
Listen, we're in here.
You're not going to...
You know, if you have the Kingston Trio up there, you know, if it had been a senior starting to do something, they'd have mobbed him.
Describe the Quack Shack in those days and campus health services.
Well, you know, we used to live, you know, no matter if you went over there, they gave you an SMU pill.
It was one of those red and blue pills.
You know, he said, listen, my arm's broken in three places.
Well, take this SMU pill and I'm going to see me in the morning, you know.
We never figured out.
I think it was probably a placebo.
Who was the doc then?
I don't know.
I never, you know.
If we were hurt, you know, Smokey had us under his.
You didn't want to be hurt because Smokey would hurt you worse.
He'd convince you you weren't really hurt.
And fortunately, I never had a, you know, most of mine were muscle tears and strained ligaments and that kind of stuff.
all the surgery I had later that I probably should have had then.
Monk Meeks, did you know him?
He was the equipment manager.
Right.
I know who he is, but didn't know him.
Mamaliga was the strength coach.
I see his son stay in touch with Mammy's boy.
Trying to think who else was around down there that still has.
Of course, Billy Pickard is, you know, his trainer down there and still a dear friend today, and we helped his son get on with the CIA, and he's...
He didn't want to be with the NFL team or the CIA.
I said, well, that's a match.
Describe, during your years at A&M, describe the student body in general.
Who were they?
What were their attitudes?
Where did they come from?
Well, they really fell into two classes.
There were the guys that were there because their daddies had been there, and generally they hated the place.
I mean, you know, they had just been raised on a steady diet A&M.
Some of them loved it.
I mean, you know, but there were a lot of those kids that were there because they had to be there, and they started off with a red-ass attitude to begin with.
Then there were people like me that got there for some of the strangest reasons, you know, that were the kind that you could drop us in a room full of shit and we'd be digging, looking for the Shetland pony and having a big time, you know, no matter what.
And then there were just a lot of people from small towns, country places, you know, that...
wanted to major in animal husbandry or had been in the future farmers or, you know, the real rural kids.
You know, they thought College Station was pretty nifty.
And, you know, there were some of us that were pretty hip or thought we were.
You know, and we were going down to Austin all the time, and we knew what it was like.
We had seen the other side of the khaki curtain.
We had escaped the outside and come back.
We used to listen to Radio Free Austin at night, you know, broadcasted music behind the khaki curtain.
In the spring, you knew the spring was coming because guys had opened the windows and stuff.
I ate this fucking place.
And you'd hear guys screwed up.
It was like an edible roar.
You knew that it was getting time for the water pipes.
And in terms of their background, was there much diversity?
Well, not really.
I mean, most of the kids that were there, there wasn't a lot of diversity in Texas.
You got to remember, it was totally segregated then.
In Port Arthur, I had friends who were Mexican-Americans, and one of my best friends at A&M was Champ Fraga.
He was a baseball player.
FRAGA.
He is here in town now, and his son, you know, godfathered his son.
We're very close.
He was honored, the Fraga family was honored by the Mexican American Bar Association.
He asked me to be the speaker for the family because I know all of them.
And Lupe and I, he would invite me to go home with him on the weekends and I took him and he told his story.
He said, the first time Jack came home with me, we went to a dance.
And Jack came over and said, hey champ, am I dressed funny or something?
And he said, no, why?
Because I said, well, you know, people keep staring at me and I mean, you know,
I've checked, my fly's done, and he said, I laughed and told him, we don't get a lot of Anglos in the bar on Saturday night.
But I hadn't really thought about it.
I was the only guy down there.
And that was, he said, you know, everybody asks me, you know, who's your white friend?
But we didn't think anything about it.
We started traveling to all the baseball games because he was the first
Mexican to play in the Southwest Conference.
And Baylor, I mean, we had a war at Baylor.
They were just vicious over there.
But at A&M, did it matter among you and your buddies?
No, everyone was treated the same way, shitty, you know.
They did not discriminate.
Treated everyone like crap.
Jewish boys, were there some?
Yeah, we had Jewish kids.
And again, you know, in Port Arthur we had Jewish kids.
I can't ever remember anyone making any distinction there.
Or between Mexican kids.
And we scrimmaged black high school.
So it was, while the society was...
segregated we did not grow up thinking about differences in people at least in port arthur now maybe they did in other parts of the state and you know you'd hear the that's when amos and andy was on the radio and i mean it was just a different time but i had black friends even then that i'd worked with in the merchant marine or i worked with out at those refineries or uh you know on a work crew it was who could get the job done why did it why
Why did Aggies accept people so well?
Well, I think it's because a lot of people look down on Aggies, and we were a tribe unto ourselves, and still are.
I mean, that's what makes us unique.
And almost everybody had a nickname.
Oh, that was good.
My mother, my mother,
My nickname at A&M was Snake.
You'd have to ask some of those guys.
I was kind of a cool dude that tried to slip through the crack.
You know, the snake can get in there, or the snake can get this done, or something.
What are some of the other nicknames you remember?
Well, snake was the one that I got.
No, no, no, for other people.
Oh, for other people.
But I was going to tell you this story.
I'm there and the phone rings at home.
And mother answered the phone and said, yes.
Said, yes, it is.
She said, no, I only have one son and his name is Jack.
There is no snake living here.
And she hung up and I said, hey, mom, that was for me.
She said, no, it's not.
And the phone rang and I ran and got the phone.
She did not like my nickname.
I will not have a snake as a son.
Why do they call you that?
Oh, mom, it's just a nickname.
Oh, they had, you know, we could sit here and talk about nicknames.
John Hall wrote a book about that.
He brought a recorder down.
I did an information dump with him.
Go pull one of his damn books.
It's got every nickname in the world.
And we got to laugh, and I'd forgotten some of those.
I'd get with those guys, and you'd start.
Were those nicknames, in fact, acceptance labels?
Well, if some guy you didn't want to mess with and his name was Herschel, you made it a point of calling him Herschel.
Not to have a nickname meant that you were devoid of personality or distinguishing characteristics.
And what was the key to being accepted at A&M?
I think willing to do your part, being one of the guys.
Not pulling your, you know, if you pulled your weight and, you know, if all the freshmen got in trouble and you didn't whine and bitch about it, you were in good shape.
But if, you know, the only people that ever had any trouble at A&M were the ones that were the crybaby's mama's boy.
And they really then begin to catch more hell than anyone else.
Once someone got like that, it could get pretty vicious.
They'd decide, you know, that guy needs to go.
They'd run him off.
And I saw, you know, a couple of freshmen just, it was like the weakest chick, and they all were going to peck on it and kill it.
And that was bad.
We had a fish black.
You talk about colorful.
What did he say?
Until she gets them all taken.
Honey, we're going to take a lunch break whenever you're ready.
Oh, Fish Black.
I've got to tell you about Fish Black.
You know, Hart Hall had those ramps.
Well, we had been, it was in the fall semester, and everybody was coming back from Chow, and there was this big, just a huge explosion, and it came from the direction of our dorm, and everyone went running.
We thought the damn thing had blown up.
We got over there, and windows were blown out.
And everybody said, what was it?
Didn't break our windows, but several windows were the concussion blown windows out.
So ours was open as always.
So they said, you know, somebody had set off an explosive device out in the quadrangle.
You know, one side was open and three were closed.
And they said, you know, it's good if it had been such and such an arm had a closed quadrangle.
It would have, you know, they came over.
And the FBI, they called the FBI, and they investigated because it was one of the professors says, you know, this is gunpowder residue.
Said somebody, you know, set off a bomb.
You know, this was not a firecracker.
This was a bomb.
And there were pieces of shrapnel embedded.
You know, I mean, it's just lucky no one was killed.
Everybody's gone, yeah.
So they came over and they did this.
They investigated one day.
I mean, these guys came and they went up in fish black.
They arrested him.
And he had in his room four cans of
black blasting powder, you know, the kind that they used to put, you know, blow stumps up with and all this stuff.
And he had weapons and he had all this shit up there in the room directly above us.
Fish Black had some little strange problems.
And that was one of the colorful characters.
And what happened to him after that?
We never saw Fish Black again.
I think they took him away and got him some help.
Then we had a sophomore named Andy Ersman, and Ersman was a swimmer, and he thought that he was really serious about this military stuff, and here he was gonna haze all these, all the freshmen in the athletic dorm.
And Ersman was always running around.
He said, I'm going to, you know, write you rams, and you've got to march in a bullring, and we'd tear it up.
And, you know, Colonel Melcher would talk to us and talk to Ersman.
And he always had his brass.
He ironed his shirts every night, always in uniform, had his brass.
And his shoes were just absolutely, they looked like patent leather.
He'd shine them all the time.
And so one weekend, he went home to Dallas.
And we went in there to his room and we put a half pound of shrimp, took his bed apart and put it in the bed.
Another guy took his pillow, took the stitching out half of the feathers and defecated in there and refilled it and stitched it and put that back.
And then we took his shoes and spent the weekend sandpapering them so that they looked like suede when he came back, which was really kind of a cruel thing to do in retrospect, but it seemed like a nice thing to do at the time.
Did he retaliate?
Well, you know, who did this?
You know, of course, everyone had an ironclad alibi.
I mean, none of us were there.
Everybody was, you know, there were 10 of us that were drinking at, you know, Uncle Ed's, and there were five gone.
You know, I mean, there was no one there.
That dorm was deserted that day.
It must have been someone, because he was notorious for Hayes and core guys.
And, you know, they'd say, who the hell is this athlete coming over here to the quadrangle to haze our freshman?
And they said, you know, it must have been the upperclassmen knew, of course.
And they said, you know, Ersman, we've told you to quit going over there.
I said, there's probably some sophomores over there that did this to you that just don't like you hazing their freshmen.
So then Ersman, about a day or two later, you know, he's complaining about the smell in his room.
And so he gets, and people would come in his room and say, Erseman, I don't smell anything.
You can't smell that.
Smell what, Ant?
You need to go over to the quack shack and get your, you know, your sniffer checked out.
God damn it, you can't smell that.
So he'd play in there at night and put his head in his pillow.
I mean, it would gag a maggot walking by that room.
I know you guys can smell it.
Ersman, you know, and he didn't have a roommate.
And so we'd make him in those guys.
They said, you know, we've got to do something.
We can't stand it.
And so you'd close both crapper doors, and they'd put towels under it.
They'd have their windows up.
We'd give them cross ventilation.
And Ersman is in there, and it just got worse and worse and worse.
And Andy went home one weekend and didn't come back.
And later on, we found out he had had a nervous breakdown, and I felt bad about him.
But, uh... And he spelled his name with an E, E-R-S-H?